-: Welcome back.
In this lecture,
we are looking into the ReplicaSets demo.
So let's check into it, okay?
So we are in our Kubernetes Fundamental
03-ReplicaSets-with-kubectl section,
and we completed the Step 01 introduction just now.
And then we are moving into the Creating ReplicaSets.
So one important thing about ReplicaSet
is we really don't have a imperative command
to create a ReplicaSet.
So we need to definitely define our YAML Manifest, okay?
So here, we are going to only look into
whatever is required inside, in this YAML Manifest,
and then, more than that,
other things we are going to discuss
when we are going to write the YAML,
once we learn the YAML fundamentals,
and then all those things.
So for us, if you see here,
apiVersion is /apps/v1,
and the kind is ReplicaSet,
which we are going to create.
It means like the object which we are going to create
in Kubernetes is ReplicaSet.
And the ReplicaSet name is my-helloworld-rs.
So that's the ReplicaSet name.
And in addition to that,
number of replicas means like number of pods
it need to get created is three pods, okay?
Forget about labels and these selectors
and these labels, all these things.
Let's forget about it for now.
We'll see when we are writing YAML definitions, okay?
So now, replicas is 3 replicas.
And the next is container spec, right?
So name of the container is my-helloworld-app,
and my image is stacksimplify/kube-helloworld:1.0.0.
So this is the application.
So let's go ahead and then create it using kubectl create
and then file name is replicaset-demo.yml.
So let's go ahead and then create it now.
So if you fork this respective directory,
which is nothing but this Kubernetes Fundamentals,
fork our download,
fork and then download our download to your local repo.
And you need to just go into 03-ReplicaSets-with-kubectl,
and you'll find this replicaset-demo.yml file here, right?
So I'll go into that now.
So if you see here, in Kubernetes Fundamentals,
I'm going to 03-ReplicaSets.
And I can find the file here.
So I'm saying kubectl create -f and replicasets-demo.yml.
My ReplicaSet is getting created.
So now, the next thing is to list the ReplicaSet, right?
So you can say kubectl get replicaset,
and it will be listed.
my-helloworld-rs.
You can see here, desired number of replicas are 3,
whatever we have configured here.
And the current is 3,
and then release 3, okay?
So now, the alias for ReplicaSets is kubectl get rs.
Even you can use rs, if you want to, right?
So, and the next thing is to describe the ReplicaSet.
Kubectl describe and rs.
rs is alias of ReplicaSet.
And my ReplicaSet name is my-helloworld-rs.
So let's describe the ReplicaSet, right?
So now if you see, in this ReplicaSet,
so let's go here,
and we can see all the information, okay?
So successfully created the ReplicaSet controller for,
and it created three pods here, okay?
So, for all the pods,
it doesn't have any issue in creating it.
So now let's list the pods.
So kubectl get pods.
So now we have three pods.
Means like three replicas got created,
my-helloworld-rs and some dynamic name, right?
So in the same way,
we can even list the pods with
wide option,
so that we know on which nodes these pods were scheduled.
So on 118, we have one pod scheduled.
On 145, we have two pods scheduled.
So in addition to that,
if you want to verify the owner of the pod, right?
So we can give the kubectl get pods and then pod name
and then -o and then yaml.
Get that YAML output,
and inside that, when you refer the ownerReferences,
you'll get those details.
So kubectl get pods
and then any one of the pod names.
So we'll get the ReplicaSet as the owner.
Right?
So if you go up
and...
We can see here, right?
So ownerReferences.
We can see the name tag here,
which is nothing but my-helloworld-rs,
which is nothing but the ReplicaSet.
So in simple terms,
to whom this pod belongs to
is nothing but this pod
belongs to that respective ReplicaSet.
So that you can find using ownerReferences.
So now in our next step,
we'll focus on exposing this as a ReplicaSet as a service.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye. Thank you.